---
title: Guides - AEM
description: This is the guides overview page of AEM 
---

# Introduction 

List (GET) which returns a collection, GET, CREATE, UPDATE, DELETE, custom operations
Functionality is grouped at a high level using the API name, e.g. assets or reports
Authentication
describe how to oass the Authorization header with value Bearer <IMS access token>
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer <your_ims_access_token>"  <URI>
Describe how to, from code, generate the access token from a JWT token
Error handling
5xx errors imply something wrong with the service, while 4xx errors imply the service rejecting the request due to something related to permissions or the data. E.g. invalid credentials, incorrect parameters, unknown version IDs
type (string) - A URI reference [RFC3986] that identifies the problem type. This specification encourages that, when dereferenced, it provide human-readable documentation for the problem type (e.g., using HTML [W3C.REC-html5-20141028]). When this member is not present, its value is assumed to be "about:blank".
title (string) - A short, human-readable summary of the problem type. It SHOULD NOT change from occurrence to occurrence of the problem, except for purposes of localization (e.g., using proactive content negotiation; see [RFC7231], Section 3.4).
status (number) - The HTTP status code ([RFC7231], Section 6) generated by the origin server for this occurrence of the problem.
detail (string) - A human-readable explanation specific to this occurrence of the problem.
instance (string) - A URI reference that identifies the specific occurrence of the problem. It may or may not yield further information if dereferenced.

